Applied Sustainability Graduate Certificate | BU MET


























































 












Skip to Main Content






Boston University


Metropolitan College






Degrees & Certificates


Admissions


Faculty & Research


Apply Now


Full Menu
Close Menu
 


Boston University








Search




Search for:




 


Degrees & Certificates






Actuarial Science






Analytics, Data & Business






Arts Administration






Bachelor’s Degree Completion






Biomedical & Healthcare






Business & Management






City Planning & Urban Affairs






Computer Information Systems






Computer Science & IT






Criminal Justice






Cybersecurity






Finance






Gastronomy & Food Studies






Linguistics






Marketing & Communications






Project Management






Risk Management






Software Development






Supply Chain Management










Admissions






Apply Now: Graduate






Apply Now: Undergraduate






International Students






Tuition & Fees






Financial Aid






Admitted Students






Academic Calendars






Orientation






Course Registration










About






Dean’s Welcome






2030 Strategic Plan






Dean’s Advisory Board






Diversity & Inclusion






Directory










Faculty & Research






Faculty






Podcast: MET Makes Conversation










Courses


Careers


News


Events


Contact Us




Resources for:


Current Students


Faculty & Staff


Alumni & Friends








Apply Now:  Graduate


Apply Now:  Undergraduate


Request Information


Connect:  Admissions


 
















 






Applied Sustainability Graduate Certificate














Back to Programs
Curriculum
Faculty
Cost
Apply Now
Request Information


Learn to Put Green Practices into Action


The Graduate Certificate in Applied Sustainability at Boston University’s Metropolitan College (MET) provides a unique interdisciplinary perspective on what it takes to make urban and economic development compatible with the natural environment, while promoting greater social, economic, gender, and racial justice.


A recent International Finance Corporation Report from the World Bank estimates that cities in emerging markets alone have the capacity to generate cumulative climate-smart investments to the tune of more than $29.4 trillion. By 2030, six key sectors, including green buildings, public transportation, electric vehicles, waste, water, and renewable energy, will attract a majority of this investment. This strong focus toward green values makes it an opportune time to add to your credentials in the field of sustainability.


Coursework in BU MET’s Applied Sustainability program guides you through the foundations of environmental planning; current theories and practices of sustainability; methods for managing and optimizing important primary resources such as energy, food, and water; urban risk management techniques beyond climate change; and the social, political, legal, and economic aspects of the global green movement.


Program at a Glance




On Campus


Part-Time Study


16 Units


8 Months to Completion


No GRE/GMAT


Tuition & Fees Range—Part-Time Study*: $10,974–$14,478






Apply Now
Request Information


*Based on 2025–2026 Boston University tuition and fees.




Apply Sustainable Solutions to Urban Development


BU MET’s Applied Sustainability graduate certificate is appropriate for individuals currently in roles as sustainability professionals as well as those seeking to enter this expanding and high-demand field. Architects, facilities managers, city planners, and IT experts have the opportunity to fill gaps in their existing knowledge, whereas those just beginning careers in these and related fields will gain the foundation to make green thinking central to their work from the outset.








Request Information


Receive more details about your program of interest.


Learn More








“The Urban Affairs program at Boston University Metropolitan College has played a pivotal role in shaping my understanding of our complex world and how it has evolved. This program has equipped me with the knowledge and insights necessary to leverage my expertise and make significant strides towards achieving my career goals.” 
Read more.




Corey Louis Coleman (MET’23)


Director of Virtual Design and Construction/ Director of Education P&H Electric Service


Master of Urban Affairs

Recipient of 2023 Commencement Award for Excellence






Connect with a Student Ambassador


Why Earn a Graduate Certificate in Applied Sustainability at BU?




Active Learning Environment:
 BU’s Applied Sustainability courses focus on practical, hands-on approaches, ensuring that you are immersed in all aspects of the topic—education you can apply on the job.


Engaged Faculty:
 In BU’s Applied Sustainability graduate certificate program, you benefit from working closely with highly qualified faculty who provide interdisciplinary perspectives on urban sustainability issues, sharing valuable expertise that will help you advance your career in the burgeoning sustainability economy.


Extensive Network:
 Study complex issues alongside peers with solid experience in sustainable practices, learn from faculty who have valuable contacts in the field, and benefit from an alumni community with strong professional connections.






Student Support: 
Enjoy an exceptional student-to-instructor ratio, ensuring close interaction with faculty mentors and access to support.


Valuable Resources:
 Make use of Boston University’s extensive resources, including the 
Center for Career Development
, 
Fitness & Recreation Center
, 
IT Help Centers
, 
Mugar Memorial Library
, 
Frederick S. Pardee Center for the Study of the Longer-Range Future
, 
Initiative on Cities
, 
Howard Thurman Center for Common Ground
, 
George Sherman Union
, and many others.


Flexible Options:
 Study at the pace that works for you, with multiple on-campus class times that include evenings, and courses that begin fall, spring, and summer.


Track Record: 
Learn from the best—BU MET has been offering a master’s program in Urban Affairs since 1969. The master’s program in City Planning was introduced in 1976.




Learn to Solve Challenges in Planning, Urban Management, and Public Policy


The Graduate Certificate in Applied Sustainability is offered through BU MET’s Department of Applied Social Sciences, which oversees several graduate programs focusing on the challenges of the urban environment, including the 
Master of Science in City Planning (MSCP)
, the 
Master of Science in Urban Affairs (MSUA)
, the 
Graduate Certificate in Applied Urban Informatics
, and the 
Graduate Certificate in Urban Policy & Planning
.


BU’s Urban Affairs & City Planning programs prepare future leaders, practitioners, and innovators for the myriad challenges that arise in urban planning and policymaking. Students consider the political, social, and technical implications of each facet of planning and policymaking, and thus grapple with the fact that there are few, if any, simple solutions or approaches to urban issues.


Graduates can pursue a wide range of professional careers in town, city, and regional planning; sustainable management; community and economic development; transportation planning; public-sector/nonprofit management; and policy research, among others.


Graduate with Expertise


Boston University’s Applied Sustainability graduate certificate will equip you to:




Analyze sustainability practices to address contemporary environmental challenges, emphasizing the integration of ecological, equity, and economic dimensions within urban development.


Develop and implement strategies for climate-adapted urban futures, demonstrating an understanding of sustainable planning principles and resilience in policy-making.




Certificate-to-Degree Pathway


BU MET graduate certificate programs can serve as building blocks to a master’s degree. The Graduate Certificate in Applied Sustainability shares specific courses with the 
Master of Science in Urban Affairs
 and 
Master of Science in City Planning
 degree programs. Students currently enrolled in a graduate certificate who are interested in transitioning into a master’s degree should contact their academic advisor to declare their interest in this pathway. A new master’s degree application is not required. Connect with a graduate admissions advisor at 
apssadmissions@bu.edu
 to learn more about this option.




Graduate Certificate in Applied Sustainability Curriculum

In addition to the below courses, students are also required to maintain an e-portfolio of the work they produce throughout the program. For more information, please visit 
this page
.


A total of four courses (16 units) is required, as follows*:


MET UA 549
 Planning Sustainable and Climate Adapted Urban Futures


Exploration of principles and practices essential for planning cities that are both sustainable and resilient to climate change. Strategies to create environmentally responsible, economically viable, and socially equitable urban futures will be examined. Key topics include climate adaptation and mitigation, green infrastructure, urban resilience, sustainable transportation, and energy-efficient urban design. Through case studies, policy analysis, and hands-on projects, students will develop the skills to design and implement innovative solutions that address the impacts of climate change while promoting sustainable urban development.  [ 4 cr. ]




MET UA 617
 Actionable Sustainability


Fall  ‘25
Sustainability generally refers to the ability of "systems" to be maintained such that they remain viable over long periods of time. As much as achieving the perfect sustainable equilibrium may be the ideal, it is important to recognize that there will be competing and conflicting interests, especially within complex hierarchical social, economic and ecological systems, particularly in light of ongoing climatic change. This field intensive course draws on the practices and theories of sustainability and climate change to understand what sustainability can mean in different contexts, and, more important, how nuanced, sustainable solutions can be achieved under varying conditions and in different systems. With an emphasis on the urban environment, the course will consist of projects in which students will identify, analyze, and develop practical proposals to real world issues. This course is intended for a wider audience from a range of disciplines.  [ 4 cr. ]






Section


Type


Instructor


Location


Days


Times






 


A1


IND


Bolduc


CDS 263


R


6:00 pm – 8:45 pm








And two courses from the following:


MET UA 510
 Selected Topics in Urban Affairs


 Graduate Prerequisites: (METUA301 & METUA701) or consent of instructor. - UA510 is the designation for "Special Topics in Planning". The subject matter for UA510 courses changes from semester to semester, and more than one UA510 can be offered in a given semester.   [ 4 cr. ]




MET UA 521
 Environmental Law, Policy, and Justice


This course is designed to present a comprehensive approach to environmental law, policy, and justice at all levels of government, including federal, state, and local governments. Principles and status of environmental law for pollution control and environmental improvement. Impact statements, resource conservation and protection, growth management. Emphasis on air, water, land, and hazardous waste issues, environmental, economic, and other policy relationships. Case materials and court decisions will be used.  [ 4 cr. ]




MET UA 526
 Multi-modal Transportation Planning and Design


Using a blended seminar and design studio format, this course equips students with the knowledge and skills necessary to participate in transportation planning processes and to develop conceptual designs for multimodal transportation networks. Students learn the history, theories, principles, and design standards of multimodal transportation planning, developing and practicing design skills during studio sessions. Readings include academic literature; government plans and reports; news articles; construction plans; as well as design manuals and guidelines for designing pedestrian, bicycle, micromobility, and transit infrastructure, and for integrating different types of transportation into urban environments. Class sessions are supplemented with site visits, guest presentations, and case studies drawn from the local, state, and national level.  [ 4 cr. ]




MET UA 527
 Feeding the City: Urban Food


Examines historical and contemporary issues involved in providing food to cities and metropolitan areas. Tracing the routes that food takes into the city and the major sources of food, the course looks closely at the accessibility of food, especially in poorer urban neighborhoods. Among topics covered are obesogenic neighborhoods, food deserts, gentrification and foodie culture, public school food nutrition, attempts to minimize food waste, and immigrants and ethnic foods in the city. The course also considers recent attempts at food production in cities, including urban agriculture, vertical farming, and craft production of food products. After closely looking at the history and current status of food programs, the course concludes with a consideration of urban food policies.  [ 4 cr. ]






Additional elective courses may be approved in consultation with the academic advisor.


*If a required course is not offered within the academic year (fall, spring, and summer sessions), students may request to take a replacement course. The request must be permitted, reviewed, and approved by the program coordinator in conjunction with representatives of the participating MET academic departments.










City Planning & Urban Affairs Faculty










Yeşim Sungu-Eryilmaz


Assistant Professor, Applied Social Sciences


Director, City Planning & Urban Affairs








Luis E. Santiago


Associate Professor of the Practice, City Planning & Urban Affairs








Felix Zemel


Lecturer, City Planning & Urban Affairs


Principal and Founder of Pracademic Solutions


DrPH, Tufts University School of Medicine; MPH, MCP, Boston University; BS, Wentworth Institute of Technology








View All Faculty










Kurt Gaertner


Lecturer, City Planning & Urban Affairs


Assistant Secretary of Environmental Policy, Massachusetts Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs


MS, Antioch University New England; BS, Bowling Green State University








Joshua Hassol


Lecturer, City Planning & Urban Affairs


Technology Policy Analyst, US Department of Transportation


PhD, University of California Irvine; BA, Wesleyan University








Kwabena Kyei-Aboagye


Lecturer, City Planning & Urban Affairs


Urban Environmental Program Manager, US Environmental Protection Agency Region I


JD, Suffolk University; MCP, BS, Boston University








Terrance Regan


Lecturer, City Planning & Urban Affairs


Former (retired) Principal Technical Advisor for Planning and Innovative Finance at the US DOT’s Volpe National Transportation Systems Center


MPA, Harvard University; BA, Rhodes College
















Tuition & Financial Assistance






Competitive Tuition

Our part-time rates are substantially lower than those of the traditional, full-time residential programs yet provide access to the same high-quality BU education.

Learn More


Comprehensive Financial Assistance

Our services include 
scholarships
, graduate loans, and payment plans.

Learn More








How Much Does This Program Cost?


Tuition, fees, and total program cost are determined by enrollment status. Course enrollment in this certificate program is 1–2 courses (4–8 units) in a semester, and tuition is charged the 
part-time per-unit rate
.


Applied Sustainability Graduate Certificate 
(On Campus)










Enrollment Status


Part Time










Courses per Semester


2 courses 
(8 units)






Time to Degree


2 semesters 
(8 months)






Tuition*


$567–$1,005 
per 
unit
**






Fees per Semester*


$75






Total Certificate Cost*


$10,974–
$14,478










*
Based on 2025–2026 Boston University tuition and fee rates.
**
Cost per unit is determined by course number (100–599 = $567/unit, 600–999 = $1,005/unit).


Questions? Please 
contact us
 to hear from an Admissions Advisor who can help you determine the best enrollment pathway. For information regarding financial aid, visit 
BU MET’s Financial Aid page
.












Get Started


Please visit the BU MET 
admissions
 page for details on how to apply, financial assistance, tuition and fees, requirements for international students, and more.


Apply Now








News & Events










News








City Planning & Urban Affairs Lecturer Puts Boston’s Economic Future, Challenges Under the Microscope







						July 8th, 2025					


 in: 
City Planning & Urban Affairs
, 
Faculty News
 


Read More












News








Cities Should Prioritize Greenways, Says Urban Agriculture Lecturer







						February 6th, 2025					


 in: 
City Planning & Urban Affairs
, 
Faculty News
, 
MET News
 


Read More












News








MET CPUA Alum Wins Outstanding Paper Award







						November 22nd, 2024					


 in: 
Alumni News
, 
Awards
, 
City Planning & Urban Affairs
, 
MET News
 


Read More












All News
















Events






Admitted Student Webinar: On-Campus Students Meet Your BU Classmates!






Day:


August 4th, 2025






Time:


1:00am - 1:45am







						Online					




Details












Events






Admitted Student Webinar: On-Campus Students Meet Your BU Classmates!






Day:


August 4th, 2025






Time:


9:00am - 9:45am







						Online					




Details












Events






Admitted Student Webinar: Online Students Meet Your BU Classmates!






Day:


August 12th, 2025






Time:


1:00pm - 1:45pm







						Online					




Details












All Events










Back to Programs














Boston University
 
Boston University
 Metropolitan College
© 2025 Trustees of Boston University


DMCA


Privacy


Sitemap


MET Job Board


Contact Us




Facebook


Instagram


LinkedIn


Twitter


YouTube




©  Boston University. All rights reserved. www.bu.edu




















Back to top