Criminal Justice Career Outlook | BU MET


























































 












Skip to Main Content






Boston University


Metropolitan College






Degrees & Certificates


Admissions


Faculty & Research


Apply Now


Full Menu
Close Menu
 


Boston University








Search




Search for:




 


Degrees & Certificates






Actuarial Science






Analytics, Data & Business






Arts Administration






Bachelor’s Degree Completion






Biomedical & Healthcare






Business & Management






City Planning & Urban Affairs






Computer Information Systems






Computer Science & IT






Criminal Justice






Cybersecurity






Finance






Gastronomy & Food Studies






Linguistics






Marketing & Communications






Project Management






Risk Management






Software Development






Supply Chain Management










Admissions






Apply Now: Graduate






Apply Now: Undergraduate






International Students






Tuition & Fees






Financial Aid






Admitted Students






Academic Calendars






Orientation






Course Registration










About






Dean’s Welcome






2030 Strategic Plan






Dean’s Advisory Board






Diversity & Inclusion






Directory










Faculty & Research






Faculty






Podcast: MET Makes Conversation










Courses


Careers


News


Events


Contact Us




Resources for:


Current Students


Faculty & Staff


Alumni & Friends








Apply Now:  Graduate


Apply Now:  Undergraduate


Request Information


Connect:  Admissions


 
















 






Criminal Justice Career Outlook
















Back to Programs
Criminal Justice


How Tailoring Your Degree Puts You on Track for Top Criminal Justice Careers in Cybercrime, Analysis & Management


Few careers offer the stability or opportunity of criminal justice and law enforcement. Even in trying times, federal, state, and local organizations rely on qualified professionals to protect communities, assets, and individuals from being exploited by bad actors and opportunists. The footprint of crime and its victims is expanding as the world of law enforcement, like so many modern professions, becomes increasingly specialized.


Digital crimes are on the rise as agencies struggle to outsmart the perpetrators. Massive sets of crime and intelligence data, largely generated in real-time, have put the onus on the entire chain of command to develop new skillsets. And law enforcement agencies require fresh vision and skilled leadership to develop accountability systems, build public trust, and ensure evidence-based practices.


These evolving conditions bring with them emerging opportunities. With a few short semesters of graduate study in criminal justice at Boston University’s Metropolitan College (MET), you can prepare yourself for success in the following promising cybercrime, analysis, and management career roles.


Digital Forensics/Cybercrime Investigator Career Outlook


Perhaps the most vital growth area in law enforcement is that of cybersecurity, cybercrime, and digital forensics investigation. 
The FBI’s Internet Crime Complaint Center (IC3) registered 847,376 complaints in 2021, reporting potential losses that exceeded $6.9 billion, up from 791,790 complaints for over $4.2 billion in losses in 2020.
 As these reported crimes rise, so too does the demand for thorough investigators able to trace cybercriminal activity back to its source.


“The biggest challenge cybercrime investigation faces is a lack of qualified human resources,” says 
Dr. Kyung-shick Choi
, director of 
Cybercrime Investigation & Cybersecurity (CIC) programs
 at BU MET. This deficit, Dr. Choi suggests, runs across the board. “The current capabilities of many law enforcement agencies are, unfortunately, very limited. Most local and state law enforcement officers lack the expertise to process computer data and related evidence, putting their departments at a disadvantage,” he says.


Since 2017, the IC3 has reported an average of 52,000 complaints annually, accounting for $18.7 billion in financial losses. Those figures are only the tip of the iceberg, however, as the FBI estimated in 2016 that only 15 percent of cybercrimes are reported to law enforcement.


“Considering the exponential increase in the number of cybercrime cases we are seeing overall, nationally and globally, the assistance provided by the FBI is still much too limited,” Dr. Choi says. “Cybercrime is in need of an infusion of law enforcement officers trained in both cybercriminal behavior and information technologies.”


BU MET is committed to improving cybercrime investigation acumen and literacy in the real world, where it counts—that’s why the CIC program was granted funding from the US Department of Justice’s Bureau of Justice Assistance (BJA) to help harness greater cybercrime investigation intelligence across law enforcement.


According to 
PayScale.com
, cybersecurity analysts e
arn
 an average salary of $77,201. Meanwhile, the median salary for the related career of information security analyst was $103,590
 in 2020
, according to the 
US Bureau of Labor Statistics
, which projects a growth rate of 33% through 2030, or 47,100 new jobs, a much faster expansion than the average career. 


With cybercrime occurring globally, and across jurisdictions, an increasing number of local police departments are recognizing the need to staff
–
up with those trained to help solve 
these types of cases
. A 2018 Police Executive Research Forum study, “The Changing Nature of Crime and Criminal Investigations,” found that for police forces, cybercrime investigators are making old ways of crime-fighting increasingly obsolete. “The old ‘silos,’ such as special units for organized crime, gangs, and narcotics, are becoming less relevant as cybercrime becomes a part of all these traditional categories,” the study reads.


Chris Kayser (MET’16) found success in cybersecurity after his time at BU MET. “Upon graduation, I formed a company called Cybercrime Analytics, Inc., that provides consulting, training, and special projects services, as well as providing the platform for my continuing research in the area of cybercrime investigation and cybersecurity,” he says. “Much of what I learned from my courses in the master’s degree program at BU provided me with the necessary skillsets to ensure the growth of my new company.”


Director Choi has seen his share of MET CIC graduates become leaders in the field at federal agencies, and he’s pleased that program alums have largely maintained special relationships with their mentors at BU MET. These strong connections, he believes, only propel BU MET’s leadership in the world of cybersecurity further, creating branching networks of opportunity. “I think that type of environment is very important, because students get to see leaders from our program—great role models, constantly in communication,” he says.


“Cybercrime is a challenging field of study,” says Director Choi. “But it opens the path to great potential. If you are working in law enforcement or IT-related fields and are fascinated with technology, and willing to learn new things, you can make a difference with your determination.”


Crime Intelligence Analyst


Policework is not just knocking on doors and interviewing witnesses anymore, as data-driven and intelligence-led approaches to crime have rapidly become the standard among contemporary criminal justice organizations. 
The proliferation of data generated by surveillance cameras, body cams, GPS, mobile devices, social media, email and text exchanges, wearable tech, sensors, and other sources has enhanced police’s potential to map hotspots, discern patterns and trends, gather evidence, solve crimes, and demonstrate results. This has put a premium on the data analysis skills critical to tactical, operational, and strategic efforts in law enforcement, and essential to research and policy development
.


“Every criminal justice agency talks about data-driven approaches,” says 
Dr. Shea Cronin
, assistant professor in BU MET’s Criminal Justice program. “A capacity to work with data and understand the ways it can inform decisions is essential.”


A 2018 study from 
Police Chief
 online, “Intelligence-led Policing: Changing the Face of Crime Prevention,” found that extrapolating data only stands to become increasingly important. “With continued refinement of how data is analyzed, coupled with programming that utilizes data intelligently and encourages agency and community collaboration, intelligence-led policing will continue to strengthen its role as a deterrent to crime,” it said.


Dr. Shea Cronin on Racial Segregation and Gun Violence Study




Qualified crime intelligence analysts stand to benefit from this 
growing 
demand. 
According to
 information from O*NET OnLine by the US Department of Labor, Employment and Training Administration (USDOL/ETA),
 dema
nd for qualified crime 
intelligence analysts
 is expected to grow up to 5% through 2030, while
 the US Bureau of Labor Statistics reports that 
median 
salaries for 
intelligence analysts
 
and 
detectives/criminal investigators
 
can 
exceed
 $86,940
 
annually
.


Careers in Management, Leadership & Policy Direction


Being an effective manager in a criminal justice organization requires more than a “tough on crime” attitude: you have to comprehend the culture within your department, communicate with first-line supervisors and other personnel, collaborate with external agencies, maintain rapport with the press and other observers, and ensure that you are able to understand and confront deeply entrenched ideas, cultures, and expectations.


Most importantly, you have to answer to the public—likely in the aftermath of a crisis. Successful management in this environment requires innovative strategies, the ability to develop accountability systems and streamline processes, and a deep commitment to best practices. It is important to maintain focus on evidence-based planning and to approach practical and systemic obstacles with a vision—and a solution.


An analysis from the 
Vera Institute of Justice
 found a recent surge in state legislation affecting policing policy and practice. From 2015–⁠16, the study found, 34 states enacted new policing laws, with many putting greater emphasis on clarifying and improving policies regarding use of force, misconduct, and documentation of police operations, including tracking and ramping up the use of body cameras on officers.


“In recent years, the policing profession has been highly scrutinized and criticized, especially about its handling of use-of-force issues,” 
a 2018 study
 by the Police Executive Research Forum found. “In response, police departments and sheriffs’ offices across the country have begun implementing new policies, procedures, training, and equipment for using force.”


By advancing into upper-management, policymaking, and executive-level agency positions, mid-career criminal justice professionals can help alleviate the pressures of these changes to expectations and strategy.


Higher education is a proven pathway to upward mobility in criminal justice, on and off the beat. The median salary for 
first-line supervisors of police and detectives
 was $92,970 in 2020, per data shared via 
O*NET OnLine
, which forecasts a 
5
–
10
% increase in jobs through 2030. 
Criminal justice and law enforcement postsecondary teachers
 saw median annual pay 
exceeding
 $63,560 in 2020, with a 
10
–
15
% increase in jobs through 2030—faster than average. 


“Having a graduate degree in criminal justice from BU gave me an edge in my promotion to the rank of captain,” says New York Police Department Captain Stephen McGonagle (MET’04). “It also enabled me to join the faculty in the criminal justice department at the State University of New York College at Buffalo as an adjunct professor.”




Connect with Us


Apply
Request Information
Meet An Advisor








What to Read Next: MET Criminal Justice Knowledge Center




Criminal Justice Student Stories


Why Get a Master's Degree in Criminal Justice at BU MET?


What Do My Career Options Look Like with a BU Master's in Criminal Justice?


Are There Different Criminal Justice Graduate Programs or Specializations at BU?


Alumni Profile: BU MET Master's in Criminal Justice


White Hat Hackers Team Up in International Cybercriminology Conference


























Boston University
 
Boston University
 Metropolitan College
© 2025 Trustees of Boston University


DMCA


Privacy


Sitemap


MET Job Board


Contact Us




Facebook


Instagram


LinkedIn


Twitter


YouTube




©  Boston University. All rights reserved. www.bu.edu




















Back to top