International Graduate Student Application | BU MET


























































 












Skip to Main Content






Boston University


Metropolitan College






Degrees & Certificates


Admissions


Faculty & Research


Apply Now


Full Menu
Close Menu
 


Boston University








Search




Search for:




 


Degrees & Certificates






Actuarial Science






Analytics, Data & Business






Arts Administration






Bachelor’s Degree Completion






Biomedical & Healthcare






Business & Management






City Planning & Urban Affairs






Computer Information Systems






Computer Science & IT






Criminal Justice






Cybersecurity






Finance






Gastronomy & Food Studies






Linguistics






Marketing & Communications






Project Management






Risk Management






Software Development






Supply Chain Management










Admissions






Apply Now: Graduate






Apply Now: Undergraduate






International Students






Tuition & Fees






Financial Aid






Admitted Students






Academic Calendars






Orientation






Course Registration










About






Dean’s Welcome






2030 Strategic Plan






Dean’s Advisory Board






Diversity & Inclusion






Directory










Faculty & Research






Faculty






Podcast: MET Makes Conversation










Courses


Careers


News


Events


Contact Us




Resources for:


Current Students


Faculty & Staff


Alumni & Friends








Apply Now:  Graduate


Apply Now:  Undergraduate


Request Information


Connect:  Admissions


 
















 






International Graduate Student Application














English Proficiency Requirements
Transcripts
Obtaining a Visa


In addition to the application requirements outlined on our 
Apply Now
 page, international students should review the English-language proficiency and international transcript requirements outlined below.


Graduate Admissions Committees meet on an ongoing basis, and admission decisions are made after a full evaluation of each candidate’s application and supporting materials. Admission is normally granted for September, January, and May of each year.


After being offered admission to a program, you will be asked to submit an international student data form and proof that you can fund all 
tuition, fees, books, and living expenses
 for the duration of your studies.


Important note regarding visas:
 Metropolitan College sponsors visas for graduate students in master’s degree and select graduate certificate programs for full-time on-campus study. The College does not sponsor visas for undergraduate programs (bachelor’s degree or non-degree).




Start Your Application


Apply Now


If you are planning to study at Boston University’s Metropolitan College (MET) on an F-1 visa, you will need to maintain full-time status (at least 12 units). Those studying online do not qualify for visa sponsorship.


Admitted international applicants who require a student visa should review the section below, “
Obtaining a Visa
,” which highlights important documentation requirements and deadlines.


English Proficiency Requirements

In addition to completing an 
Application for Graduate Admission
, international applicants must submit proof of English proficiency by submitting official results of the 
Test of English as a Foreign Language (TOEFL)
, 
International English Language Testing System (IELTS)
, or 
Duolingo English Test
. Acceptable minimum scores are listed below. Official scores are valid for review for up to two years.


The language proficiency requirement will be waived for the following applicants: 




Those whose native language is English.


Those who have received, or expect to receive, an undergraduate or graduate degree from an accredited college or university where the primary language of instruction is English. This may include applicants who are part of a 2+2 dual-degree program in which coursework is taught entirely in English.


Those who have, or will have, worked for at least two years in a full-time, post-bachelor’s degree position in the United States.



The admissions committee may request documentation that clearly states the language of instruction from previous institutions if not clearly stated on the transcript(s). Additionally, the committee reserves the right to request an English proficiency exam score upon review of all submitted application documents.


Minimum TOEFL Requirements


MET’s minimum total internet-based TOEFL score is 
84
, with minimum scores in each section as follows:




Reading—21


Listening—18


Speaking—23


Writing—22




The ETS TOEFL institution code for all Boston University Graduate Programs is 
3087
.


MET also accepts the TOEFL Essentials exam with a minimum score of 
9
. The minimum score in each section is as follows:




Reading—9


Listening—8.5


Speaking—9


Writing—9




Minimum IELTS Requirements


Scores from the IELTS are accepted as proof of English proficiency. The minimum total band score of 6.5 is required for admission to Metropolitan College, along with scores of 6.5 in each section: listening, reading, writing, and speaking.


To share your IELTS scores with MET, please take both the following steps:




Self-report your IELTS scores in the “Standardized Tests” section of the application. When prompted, be sure to include your IELTS Test Report Form (TRF) number (15–18 digits) located in the bottom right-hand corner of your score report. This must be listed for your official scores to be matched to your application.


Then, navigate to the 
IELTS website
 and request that your official scores be released to “
Boston University Graduate Programs
.”




Minimum Duolingo Requirements


Scores from the Duolingo English Test are accepted as proof of English proficiency. A minimum score of 
115
 is required for admission to Metropolitan College. The Admissions Committee will also review subscores for consistency within each subject area.


Applicants submitting Duolingo scores must send the following information to 
metapp@bu.edu
, using “DUOLINGO Test Result” as the email subject line:




First and last name


Date of birth


Date of Duolingo English Test




Duolingo English Test results are made available 48 hours after the completion of an exam and may take 2–3 business days to process in our office.






Transcripts

The Admissions Committee recommends an official evaluation of all international transcripts from a 
NACES member evaluation organization
. The three organizations below will all submit official evaluations electronically to Boston University Metropolitan College:




Spantran
 – Following this link for Spantran will bring you to a BU MET specific application, which comes with a small discount for our students.


Educational Credential Evaluators, Inc.


World Education Services




If you have questions about transcript evaluations, please contact the Admissions staff for your program of interest.






Obtaining a Visa

Upon being admitted to Metropolitan College, you will receive guidance through the student visa application process from the MET admissions team. To apply for a student visa, you must first obtain a Certificate of Eligibility from Boston University. There are two types of certificates: the Form I-20 (for those seeking an F-1 visa) and the Form DS-2019 (for those seeking a J-1 visa). Obtaining a certificate is the first step toward securing your student visa, as you will need the certificate to schedule your visa appointment at a US consulate in your home country.


For a comprehensive overview of this process, please watch the video tutorial 
Applying for a US Visa
.


While you are watching the tutorial, we encourage you to review this 
PDF of the presentation
, which contains active hyperlinks to all web pages referenced throughout the video. If you have visa-related questions, please contact us at 
metvisa@bu.edu
.


Form I-20 Request Deadlines


As visa processing can take several months, incoming students requiring a student visa should submit all 
required immigration documentation
 to MET as 
early as possible and no later than the deadlines indicated below
.




If you are 
not currently studying in the US
 and need to apply for a student visa, you should submit documents at least three months prior to each start term, and 
no later than
:



July 1 (fall)


November 15 (spring)


March 15 (summer)






If you 
are currently studying in the US on an F-1 visa
 and plan to transfer your SEVIS record*, you should submit documents at least two months prior to each start term, and 
no later than
:



August 1 (fall)


December 15 (spring)


April 15 (summer)




*Your SEVIS record associated with your prior institution must be transferred to BU during your 60-day grace period following your prior program’s completion.




Students who do not meet these deadlines will be required to 
defer their admission offer
 to a future entry term by completing an 
Enrollment Status Change Request Form
.






Medical Insurance

Both Massachusetts state and federal law require all international students to enroll in a health insurance plan that meets strict minimum requirements. All Boston University students are automatically enrolled each year in the 
Boston University Student Medical Insurance Plan
 administered by 
Aetna Student Health
.


If you do not wish to participate in the Boston University Medical Insurance Plan, you must annually file a 
Medical Insurance Waiver of Enrollment
. For more information, visit Student Accounting Services’ 
medical insurance
 page.






Frequently Asked Questions


Must I submit the International Student Data Form and the required financial documentation with my application?


All international applicants who are 
offered admission and accept their offer
 are then required to submit the completed International Applicant Coversheet or 
International Student Data Form
 with required passport/visa documentation. Applicants offered admission will be immediately notified by email and given instructions on how to submit this documentation.


Can I apply for an application fee waiver?


No. Metropolitan College only offers application fee waivers for US veterans, Boston University employees, and domestic applicants who have demonstrated significant financial need.


Does my transcript have to be in English?


Yes, all submitted transcripts must be in English. If you are submitting a transcript that is not in English, you must submit a certified evaluation of the transcript and degrees awarded (more information below).


Do I need to obtain a WES/ECE evaluation?


The WES/ECE evaluation is not a required component of the application, except for transcripts that are not in English (see question above). If you have attended an institution that is not located within the United States, we request that you upload your unofficial transcript in the appropriate section of your application. The admissions office may contact you at the time of review if a WES/ECE evaluation is necessary.


What forms of financial support are acceptable?


For information on required financial documentation requirements, visit the University’s 
International Students & Scholars Office website
.


As noted on their site, all declarations of financial support must:




Reflect the minimum amount of support in US dollars.


Specify funding for study at Boston University (not another college or university).


Include a date and be no older than one year from the intended date of enrollment.


Indicate the period of time for which the support will be provided.


Be written in English.


Reflect funds that are readily available for tuition payments (i.e., checking or savings accounts). Certain investment accounts such as stocks, salary documents, or property holdings do not reflect available funds and will not be accepted.




It is recommended that prospective students request three sets of financial documents: one to submit to Boston University, one to provide the US Embassy or Consulate to which they will apply for the visa, and one to retain for their records (and to present at the US Port of Entry if requested).


How much are the estimated costs that have to be covered by financial support?


The International Students & Scholars Office provides 
estimated expenses for international students
 on the Charles River Campus that should be sufficient for one year of attendance at Boston University. Please be aware that this estimate is updated on a yearly basis. If the estimate posted on the website is for a previous academic year, you should expect an increase and submit financial support documents accordingly.













		Related to International Graduate Student Application		


Admissions




Apply Now: Graduate






Apply Now: Undergraduate






International Students






Graduate Application






Professional Opportunities






Tuition & Fees






Frequently Asked Questions










Tuition & Fees






Financial Aid






Admitted Students






Academic Calendars






Orientation






Course Registration












Admissions Events


Sign up for one of our upcoming webinars.




View Events


















Boston University
 
Boston University
 Metropolitan College
© 2025 Trustees of Boston University


DMCA


Privacy


Sitemap


MET Job Board


Contact Us




Facebook


Instagram


LinkedIn


Twitter


YouTube




©  Boston University. All rights reserved. www.bu.edu




















Back to top