The Benefits of An Actuarial Career | BU MET




























































 












Skip to Main Content






Boston University


Metropolitan College






Degrees & Certificates


Admissions


Faculty & Research


Apply Now


Full Menu
Close Menu
 


Boston University








Search




Search for:




 


Degrees & Certificates






Actuarial Science






Analytics, Data & Business






Arts Administration






Bachelor’s Degree Completion






Biomedical & Healthcare






Business & Management






City Planning & Urban Affairs






Computer Information Systems






Computer Science & IT






Criminal Justice






Cybersecurity






Finance






Gastronomy & Food Studies






Linguistics






Marketing & Communications






Project Management






Risk Management






Software Development






Supply Chain Management










Admissions






Apply Now: Graduate






Apply Now: Undergraduate






International Students






Tuition & Fees






Financial Aid






Admitted Students






Academic Calendars






Orientation






Course Registration










About






Dean’s Welcome






2030 Strategic Plan






Dean’s Advisory Board






Diversity & Inclusion






Directory










Faculty & Research






Faculty






Podcast: MET Makes Conversation










Courses


Careers


News


Events


Contact Us




Resources for:


Current Students


Faculty & Staff


Alumni & Friends








Apply Now:  Graduate


Apply Now:  Undergraduate


Request Information


Connect:  Admissions


 
















 






The Benefits of Becoming an Actuary


















Back to Programs
Actuarial Science


What does it take to land a job as an actuary? Primarily, the role requires a strong command of mathematics and statistics—perhaps even a passion for quantitative analysis—along with the ability to be detail oriented. But if you love crunching numbers and analyzing data, you have the foundation needed to pursue a career as an actuary, one of the most consistently top-rated jobs out there.


Infographic: Why Explore an Actuarial Career?


Download the full infographic to see why actuarial science is one of the most compelling career paths for quantitative analysts—and how a master’s degree adds value.




Download Full Infographic


Generally, actuaries work for life, health, and property/casualty insurance companies, as well as for consulting firms, government agencies, accounting firms, industrial corporations, banks, and financial services companies. They use mathematics, statistics, and financial theory to predict risk and define the economic impact of uncertain events—from catastrophes to rates of mortality, disability, and fertility—on organizations, enabling them to adjust their long-term management strategies accordingly.


It’s a job that boasts high satisfaction and pays well, especially if you have the advantage of a master’s degree in Actuarial Science. As the only university in northern New England that offers such a degree, Boston University provides a natural pipeline to leadership roles in the industry. The 
MS in Actuarial Science
 at BU MET is a part-time program taught by working actuaries who have considerable hands-on experience and extensive career networks throughout some of the most prestigious companies that employ actuaries.


The BU MET Actuarial Science graduate curriculum is led by industry professionals who share their expertise in the classroom, ensuring that you develop deep knowledge of the field and well-honed skills in leadership and communication. Additionally, program coursework provides vital preparation for several challenging exams actuaries must pass to obtain certification. Ultimately, graduates of the program benefit from the prestige of BU’s world-renowned brand and cache in the business community.


Learn more about the Master of Science in Actuarial Science program at BU MET.




Connect with Us


Apply
Request Information
Meet An Advisor
















Boston University
 
Boston University
 Metropolitan College
© 2025 Trustees of Boston University


DMCA


Privacy


Sitemap


MET Job Board


Contact Us




Facebook


Instagram


LinkedIn


Twitter


YouTube




©  Boston University. All rights reserved. www.bu.edu




















Back to top