Online Foundations of Health Comm Graduate Certificate | BU MET


























































 












Skip to Main Content






Boston University


Metropolitan College






Degrees & Certificates


Admissions


Faculty & Research


Apply Now


Full Menu
Close Menu
 


Boston University








Search




Search for:




 


Degrees & Certificates






Actuarial Science






Analytics, Data & Business






Arts Administration






Bachelor’s Degree Completion






Biomedical & Healthcare






Business & Management






City Planning & Urban Affairs






Computer Information Systems






Computer Science & IT






Criminal Justice






Cybersecurity






Finance






Gastronomy & Food Studies






Linguistics






Marketing & Communications






Project Management






Risk Management






Software Development






Supply Chain Management










Admissions






Apply Now: Graduate






Apply Now: Undergraduate






International Students






Tuition & Fees






Financial Aid






Admitted Students






Academic Calendars






Orientation






Course Registration










About






Dean’s Welcome






2030 Strategic Plan






Dean’s Advisory Board






Diversity & Inclusion






Directory










Faculty & Research






Faculty






Podcast: MET Makes Conversation










Courses


Careers


News


Events


Contact Us




Resources for:


Current Students


Faculty & Staff


Alumni & Friends








Apply Now:  Graduate


Apply Now:  Undergraduate


Request Information


Connect:  Admissions


 
















 






Foundations of Health Communication Graduate Certificate














Back to Programs
Careers
Curriculum
Faculty
Cost
Apply Now
Request Information


Program at a Glance




Online


Part-Time Study


16 Units


8–12 Months to Completion


13 Faculty


No GRE/GMAT


Tuition & Fees—Part-Time Study*: $9,222






Apply Now
Request Information


*Based on 2025–2026 Boston University tuition and fees.


Discover Key Principles of Health Communication


Boston University’s online Graduate Certificate in Foundations of Health Communication provides the essential knowledge, insights, and training to prepare you for work in the growing health and wellness industries, where business-to-consumer and business-to-business communication is vital. The curriculum provides a baseline understanding of health communication, including awareness of health systems and stakeholders, population-based research, campaign planning, and practice using health literacy strategies and plain language for diverse populations.


Healthcare is entering a transformative period. According to the US Census Bureau, by 2030 aging baby boomers will outnumber children for the first time. By 2034, more than 77 million (one in five residents) will be age 65 or older. In addition to this predicted demand for healthcare needs, growth in chronic lifestyle diseases—diabetes, blood pressure, asthma, arthritis, cancer, dementia, and other stress-related disorders—is driving expansion of the wellness industry, the value of which is poised to grow by $1,299.8 billion through 2024, according to a report by Technavio. Healthcare organizations, along with the many health and wellness businesses affiliated with them, will all need professional health communicators.


The BU MET certificate program in Foundations of Health Communication develops the knowledge necessary for understanding and communicating with myriad audiences within the healthcare sector. For those whose work intersects with healthcare or wellness, the certificate provides an understanding of the systems, populations, policies, tactics, and practices necessary to implement effective communication within the bounds of regulatory, privacy, and ethical considerations.


Marketing communication professionals, brand specialists, consultants, journalists, analysts, clinicians, and business development professionals working in a health or wellness context have the opportunity to fill gaps in their existing knowledge, whereas those just beginning careers in these and related fields will gain the foundation to employ dynamic communication skills, understand the systems and complexities of the healthcare industry, and develop effective strategies and high-quality materials for stakeholder groups.








Request Information


Receive more details about your program of interest.


Learn More


















What Is My Career Outlook as a Graduate of This Program?








132,960


Total number of US Jobs






15,361


Annual job openings






+2.5%


Annual job openings














Common job titles include:






Communications Directors


Public Relations Specialist


Medical Writer


Proposal Writers


Healthcare Administrator or Manager










Employers seek expertise in:




Public relations strategy


Social media/community management


Visual communication


Digital marketing


Writing for healthcare


Health campaign development & execution












 






Source: Lightcast, U.S. Bureau of Labor Statistics








“The most valuable aspect of BU MET for me is the ability to blend academic rigor with practical application. The program's focus on real-world skills and current industry practices has been invaluable. The curriculum's relevance to my work in health communications meant I could immediately apply what I learned in the classroom to my [job position]. This not only enhanced my professional capabilities but allowed me to make meaningful contributions to my current organization and any organization I may join in the future.” 
Read more.




Rebecca Handler (MET’23)


Engagement Manager, Stanford University School of Medicine


MS, Health Communication




Connect with a Student Ambassador




Why Earn a Graduate Certificate in Foundations of Health Communication at BU?




Active Learning Environment:
 BU MET’s Health Communication program provides practical, hands-on education that you can apply on the job.


Engaged Faculty:
 In BU MET’s Health Communication program, you benefit from working closely with experienced health professionals and faculty experts from across Boston University, including the College of Communication, School of Public Health, and Metropolitan College.


Extensive Network:
 Study principles of healthcare and communication alongside peers with industry experience, learn from faculty who have valuable contacts in the field, and benefit from an alumni community with strong professional connections.


15:1 Class Ratio:
 Enjoy an exceptional student-to-instructor ratio, ensuring close interaction with faculty and access to support.


Valuable Resources:
 Make use of Boston University’s extensive resources, including the 
Center for Career Development
, 
Educational Resource Center
, 
Fitness & Recreation Center
, 
IT Help Centers
, 
Mugar Memorial Library
, 
Howard Thurman Center for Common Ground
, 
George Sherman Union
, 
Rafik B. Hariri Institute for Computing and Computational Science & Engineering
, and many others.


100% Online:
 Study at the pace that works for you, fully online. Online courses have two starts per term.




Advance Your Skills in Health Communication


The Graduate Certificate in Foundations of Health Communication is part of BU’s Health Communication program, which also includes the 
Master of Science in Health Communication (MSHC)
 degree program—developed in collaboration with BU’s College of Communication—and the 
Graduate Certificate in Healthcare Promotion, Media & Marketing
 and 
Graduate Certificate in Visual & Digital Health Communication
.


Designed for professional health communicators and those looking to transition into the field, BU’s Health Communication program provides a comprehensive education in the areas of healthcare marketing and professional communication, interactive marketing, social media management, and public and media relations.


Taught by full-time university professors and leading professionals practicing in the field, coursework is practical and immediately applicable on the job. The program faculty create a dynamic learning environment by blending theory, practice, and scholarship in every course. The program curriculum, offered fully online, is designed to broaden and deepen students’ understanding of communications, PR, marketing, health sciences, and public health, as well as issues of privacy, regulation, ethics, health equity, and cultural humility.


Graduate with Expertise in Healthcare Communication


Metropolitan College’s Foundations of Health Communication graduate certificate will equip you with:




Demonstrated awareness and understanding of the basic foundations, systems, framework, and complexities within healthcare, and the regulatory, privacy, ethical, and legal considerations inherent to health and wellness communication.


The ability to interpret and apply basic communication research fundamentals to the field of health communication.


Understanding of the methods, techniques, and best practices for developing high-quality, audience-specific health communication materials that are strategic, clear, and concise.




Certificate-to-Degree Pathway


You can earn the 
Master’s in Health Communication
 by completing the Graduate Certificate in Foundations of Health Communication along with four courses chosen from the list of required courses from the 
MSHC master’s program
. The Foundations of Health Communication graduate certificate can also be paired with a graduate certificate in either 
Healthcare Promotion, Media & Marketing
 or 
Visual & Digital Health Communication
 to earn the MSHC with a 
concentration in Healthcare Promotion, Media & Marketing
 or a 
concentration in Visual & Digital Health Communication
. Students currently enrolled in a graduate certificate who are interested in transitioning into a master’s degree should contact their academic advisor to declare their interest in this pathway. A new master’s degree application is not required. Connect with a graduate admissions advisor at 
 metmshc@bu.edu
 to learn more about this option.




Graduate Certificate in Foundations of Health Communication Curriculum

A total of four courses (16 units) is required, as follows:


MET HC 550
 US Healthcare System


This course provides students with basic knowledge of how the health care system in the U.S. is structured, and the policies, stakeholders and complexities impacting access to care, costs, quality and equity among various populations. Drawing on multiple views and opinions, students build on their perspectives as they critically analyze pros and cons of health system fundamentals. Students then apply their knowledge to a series of practical written assignments that help build a strategic plan for improving the health outcomes of an underserved population in their home state. An emphasis is placed on written and oral delivery of final project campaigns.
Please note: This 4-credit course meets over a 7-week period. Students should expect about twice the weekly workload of a 14-week course.   [ 4 cr. ]




MET HC 559
 Health Communication Principles and Strategies


Fall  ‘25
This foundational course examines and bridges the theory and practice of interpersonal, organizational, mass communication, and digital media relevant to the professional communicator and health practitioner alike. It reviews strategies of persuasion, the relationship between attitudes and health behavior through the lifespan, and the changing nature of health, illness and health delivery in local and global arenas. Students consider how the Social Determinants of Health (where we live, learn, work and play) impact health behaviors and outcomes for diverse populations. Starting with the history of health communication, students gain insight into the evolution of this emerging discipline, from public health education to its broader place in the marketing mix through recent decades. Guided by case studies, research and analysis, students explore the health communication cycle and strategic planning process using frames, channels and tools best suited for reaching behavioral, social, and organizational objectives. The course shifts from theoretical to practical, giving students hands-on experience developing a strategic health communication campaign that considers culture, age, gender and health literacy, to effectively -- and measurably -- influence health outcomes for its intended audience. 
Please note: This 4-credit course meets over a 7-week period. Students should expect about twice the weekly workload of a 14-week course.  [ 4 cr. ]






Section


Type


Instructor


Location


Days


Times






 


O2


IND


Agudelo


 


ARR


12:00 am – 12:00 am






MET HC 560
 Research Methods for Health Communication


There is a growing demand for professionals with the skills to collect, analyze and interpret data. This course prepares students with essential knowledge of primary research methods, and how to apply them -- accurately and ethically -- to the practice of health communication. Beginning with the basics of research design and evaluation, the course progresses through qualitative, quantitative and mixed methods, survey design, descriptive statistics, focus groups and other approaches, with the goal of helping health communication professionals create meaningful, data- driven strategies, stories and content. Students will practice analyzing, interpreting and writing about various health studies presented throughout the course. Also emphasized is the application of research to advertising messaging and public relations strategies. 
 Please note: This 4-credit course meets over a 7-week period. Students should expect about twice the weekly workload of a 14-week course.  [ 4 cr. ]




MET HC 561
 Writing for Health


Effectively communicating knowledge, methods, language and terminology from the complex fields of health, science and medicine- and writing about them plainly- requires an advanced command of language, and proficient use of health literacy principles. If writing does not come naturally to you, this course will introduce you to those health literacy principles, as well as formats and processes for developing materials with confidence. If you're a more experienced writer, get ready to hone your skills using best practices for creating various kinds of health content. Throughout the course you'll analyze different audience needs and refine writing strategies, style, voice, and vocabulary to accommodate each audience. You'll also practice essential writing qualities, including clarity and brevity, alongside advanced grammar, sentence structure and writing mechanics. Assignments include writing, revising, and editing clear, accurate, audience-appropriate content for a journalistic news report; a patient education print brochure; narrative feature storytelling; a health-related blog; scriptwriting for a visual public service announcement, and social media writing to promote your content 
Please note: This 4-credit course meets over a 7- week period. Students should expect about twice the weekly workload of a 14-week course.  [ 4 cr. ]














Health Communication Faculty














Justin Joseph


Program Director, Health Communication


Associate Professor of the Practice, Public Relations, Boston University College of Communication


MS, Boston University; MA, Gordon-Conwell Theological Seminary; BS, Boston University












Felipe Agudelo Acevedo


Lecturer


Associate Director of Diversity and Inclusion, Boston University Chobanian & Avedisian School of Medicine


PhD, DePaul University; MPH, National School of Public Health, Universidad de Antioquía, Colombia; BEng, Universidad de Antioquía, Colombia












Alane Bearder


Lecturer and Program Facilitator


Digital Marketing Strategist, Strategic Communications Consultant


MS, Boston University; BA, Rutgers University-New Brunswick







 

View All Faculty














Stephanie Burke


Lecturer


Associate Professor, Prince George’s Community College


PhD, Morgan State University; MS, Boston University; MA, BS, Hofstra University












Paul Buta


Lecturer


Health Care Marketing Executive, Choiceplex


MBA, University of Chicago Booth School of Business; MS, BS, University of Illinois, Urbana












Leigh Curtin-Wilding


Lecturer


Digital Content Strategist, Consultant


MS, Health Communication, Boston University; BA, Journalism/Mass Communications and Public Relations, University of Oklahoma












Anne Danehy


Senior Lecturer, Boston University College of Communication


MA, University of Connecticut; BA, Smith College












Donna Duffy


Lecturer


Adjunct Faculty and Doctoral Committee Chair, Doctor of Health Sciences Program, Bay Path University


Curriculum Consultant and Learning Facilitator, Drug Abuse Resistance Education (D.A.R.E.)


PhD, University of North Carolina, Greensboro; BS, EdM, Boston University












James Gardner


Lecturer


Managing Director, Topline Partners
MBA, Northwestern University; HBA, University of Western Ontario












Gabraelle Lane


Lecturer


Public Health Analyst, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention


MS, Boston University; BA, Howard University












Stephen Quigley


Academic Advisor


Associate Professor of Public Relations, Boston University College of Communication


MEd, Boston University; BA, University of Massachusetts












Domenic Screnci


Academic Advisor


Lecturer, Boston University College of Communication


EdD, MEd, Boston University












Timothy Sullivan


Lecturer and Program Facilitator


Director of Communications, The Spaulding Rehabilitation Network & Partners Continuing Care


MS, Boston University; BA, Northeastern University












Tuition & Financial Assistance






Competitive Tuition

Our part-time rates are substantially lower than those of the traditional, full-time residential programs yet provide access to the same high-quality BU education.

Learn More


Comprehensive Financial Assistance

Our services include 
scholarships
, graduate loans, and payment plans.

Learn More








How Much Does This Program Cost?


Tuition, fees, and total program cost are determined by enrollment status. Course enrollment in this certificate program is 1–2 courses (4–8 units) in a semester, and tuition is charged the 
part-time per-unit rate
.


Foundations of Health Communication Graduate Certificate 
(Online)










Enrollment Status


Part Time










Courses per Semester


2 courses 
(8 units)






Time to Degree


2 semesters 
(8 months)






Tuition*


$567–$1,005 
per 
unit
**






Fees per Semester*


$75






Total Certificate Cost*


$9,222










*
Based on 2025–2026 Boston University tuition and fee rates.
**
Cost per unit is determined by course number (100–599 = $567/unit, 600–999 = $1,005/unit).


Questions? Please 
contact us
 to hear from an Admissions Advisor who can help you determine the best enrollment pathway. For information regarding financial aid, visit 
BU MET’s Financial Aid page
.












Get Started


Please visit the BU MET 
admissions
 page for details on how to apply, financial assistance, tuition and fees, requirements for international students, and more.


Apply Now








News & Events










News








Global Marketing Management Alum Parth Mutha Named to 
Forbes
’ 30 Under 30 List for Soy-Snack Promunch







						June 18th, 2025					


 in: 
Alumni News
, 
Awards
, 
Business & Management
, 
Global Marketing Management
, 
MET News
, 
Students
 


Read More












News








Student Puts Global Marketing Management Skills to Use with Recycled Tennis String Venture







						June 5th, 2025					


 in: 
Business & Management
, 
Daily Free Press
, 
Global Marketing Management
, 
MET News
, 
Students
 


Read More












News








Health Communication Lecturer Warns: When It Comes to Patient Dialogue, Culture is Key







						May 20th, 2025					


 in: 
Faculty News
, 
Health Communication
, 
MET News
 


Read More












All News
















Events






Admitted Student Webinar: On-Campus Students Meet Your BU Classmates!






Day:


August 4th, 2025






Time:


1:00am - 1:45am







						Online					




Details












Events






Admitted Student Webinar: On-Campus Students Meet Your BU Classmates!






Day:


August 4th, 2025






Time:


9:00am - 9:45am







						Online					




Details












Events






Admitted Student Webinar: Online Students Meet Your BU Classmates!






Day:


August 12th, 2025






Time:


1:00pm - 1:45pm







						Online					




Details












All Events










Back to Programs














Boston University
 
Boston University
 Metropolitan College
© 2025 Trustees of Boston University


DMCA


Privacy


Sitemap


MET Job Board


Contact Us




Facebook


Instagram


LinkedIn


Twitter


YouTube




©  Boston University. All rights reserved. www.bu.edu




















Back to top