MS in Arts Administration Career Options | BU MET


























































 












Skip to Main Content






Boston University


Metropolitan College






Degrees & Certificates


Admissions


Faculty & Research


Apply Now


Full Menu
Close Menu
 


Boston University








Search




Search for:




 


Degrees & Certificates






Actuarial Science






Analytics, Data & Business






Arts Administration






Bachelor’s Degree Completion






Biomedical & Healthcare






Business & Management






City Planning & Urban Affairs






Computer Information Systems






Computer Science & IT






Criminal Justice






Cybersecurity






Finance






Gastronomy & Food Studies






Linguistics






Marketing & Communications






Project Management






Risk Management






Software Development






Supply Chain Management










Admissions






Apply Now: Graduate






Apply Now: Undergraduate






International Students






Tuition & Fees






Financial Aid






Admitted Students






Academic Calendars






Orientation






Course Registration










About






Dean’s Welcome






2030 Strategic Plan






Dean’s Advisory Board






Diversity & Inclusion






Directory










Faculty & Research






Faculty






Podcast: MET Makes Conversation










Courses


Careers


News


Events


Contact Us




Resources for:


Current Students


Faculty & Staff


Alumni & Friends








Apply Now:  Graduate


Apply Now:  Undergraduate


Request Information


Connect:  Admissions


 
















 






What Are My Career Options with an Arts Administration Master’s Degree from Boston University’s Metropolitan College?


















Back to Programs
Arts Administration




To pursue a career in arts administration is to make culture your business. Professional arts administrators must be prepared to handle all kinds of challenges—from budget issues to interpersonal dealings, logistics, and even matters of taste. That’s why the Arts Administration graduate degree program at Boston University’s Metropolitan College emphasizes job-ready skills like goal setting for mission- and revenue-driven organizations; fundraising, networking, financial management, and relationship management; and strategic marketing.


These are the tools you’ll need to thrive in an arts administration career, whether you’re leading an arts organization or working in a fundraising role. At BU’s Metropolitan College, Arts Administration graduates go on to make their marks in both the visual arts and performing arts fields, with professional prospects that grow steadily after earning their degrees. Thanks to a curriculum that prioritizes global thinking, centers the role of the artist, and nurtures important fundamental strengths that are transferable across the profession, your master’s degree in Arts Administration from BU MET prepares you to not only embrace opportunity, but develop your own.


Faculty in BU MET’s Arts Administration program prioritize the development of each student’s professional profile, in part through an internship requirement. While students can seek out their own internship opportunity, the program has established valuable relationships with numerous esteemed arts organizations in the region, including the Boston Ballet, the Boston Symphony Orchestra, the New England Foundation for the Arts, the Huntington Theater Company, and the Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston, among many others. What’s more, past students have landed internships at prestigious places like the Kennedy Center for the Arts, 
Rolling Stone
 magazine, the Smithsonian Institution, Christie’s Auction House, and the English National Ballet. Engaging in fieldwork and refining real-world skills through these internships is invaluable to building a successful career.


And even after graduation, BU MET offers resources to aid your job search. In addition to the 
robust jobs board
 the Arts Administration program maintains, 
MET’s Career Development office
 and 
BU’s Center for Career Development
 offer a host of job-hunting resources, including one-on-one career counseling, LinkedIn consulting, résumé/CV or cover letter review, and tips to evaluate job offers and negotiate salaries.


What sorts of careers can you expect to pursue when you earn a 
Master of Science in Arts Administration
 at BU? To answer that, we can look to the impressive success of our alums.


Venue CEO


Casey Soward (MET’09)
 exemplifies the possibilities an MS in Arts Administration can unlock. After a decade as executive director of the Cabot Performing Arts Center in Beverly, Massachusetts, he is now CEO of the Boch Center, the organization responsible for operating Boston’s historic Wang Theatre and Shubert Theatre—two of the most iconic venues in the city.


Prior to his time with Boch and the Cabot, Soward oversaw programming, marketing, and public relations for concerts, recitals, and special events as director of production and performance at the Boston University School of Music.


For Soward, who—following his studies at BU MET—is known professionally for his fundraising acumen, the arts administration calling is close to his heart. “From presenting world-class performances to preserving and restoring historic venues, I believe in the profound impact that arts and cultural programs can have on society,” he says.


Arts Entrepreneur


Priya Krishnamoorthy (MET’19)
 was already an accomplished arts manager in her home country of India when she chose to enroll at BU’s Metropolitan College. She pursued her master’s in Arts Administration at BU MET to acquire the knowledge necessary to thrive as an entrepreneur, learn about best practices from a global perspective, and establish a foothold in the United States market.


A winner of India’s Fulbright Nehru Master’s Fellowship, Krishnamoorthy credits BU’s Arts Administration graduate program with propelling her toward new goals. “It was during my time at BU MET that I realized that I wanted to bring creativity together with sustainable development,” she says.


She has since founded 200 Million Artisans—a purpose-led, social enterprise aimed at catalyzing inclusion and innovation within India’s handmade production sector. “The skills that I gained at MET can be applied across the board—in the arts, social impact consulting, fundraising, and beyond,” she states. “That is exactly what I am doing right now.”


Director of Development


Claire Fassnacht (MET’17)
 believes that philanthropy in the arts is largely misunderstood. “A lot of people are afraid of fundraising because they think it is just about asking for money,” she says. “What they don’t realize is that people are generally excited to give you money when they know that they are making a difference in the world.”


Fassnacht came to BU MET eager to make a difference and advance her career, which she did thanks the Arts Administration program. She particularly values the skills she gained during her studies. “It was a very well-rounded program that provided classes in a lot of different administration areas,” she says. “I think that every nonprofit administrator should know about financial management and have strong writing skills, so 
Financial Management for Nonprofits (MET AR 750)
 and the 
Raising Funds and Grant Writing for Nonprofit Organizations (MET AR 550)
 were key classes for me.”


Today, Fassnacht works at Intuit: The Center for Intuitive and Outsider Art, a small museum in Chicago. After starting her journey as a development coordinator, she progressed to development manager, and now holds the position of director of development. “I am writing grants, managing the membership program, individual fundraising (which includes any mailed and online campaigns), one-on-one meetings with donors, and helping the museum president prepare for donor meetings,” she says.


But the part of the job she enjoys most is helping those who give see real results for their generosity. “The golden responsibility of a fundraiser is to connect donors with a change or impact that they are making through their giving,” Fassnacht asserts.


Operations Manager


Cameron Lane (MET’21)
 came to BU MET’s master’s degree in Arts Administration program with a clear goal—to create greater opportunities in the arts for historically disadvantaged communities. Since graduating, he has taken meaningful steps toward achieving his ambitions.


He began his career as a sales and community associate with South Boston’s Artists for Humanity, an organization that connects under-resourced teenage artists with mentors and opportunities to earn income in the creative sector. In this role, he focused on community outreach, fostering collaboration among various stakeholders aligned with his social-minded mission.


“I’m in constant communication with various initiatives and nonprofits in our teen artists’ neighborhoods about future opportunities for our artists to make positive change in their communities,” Lane explains. “We are in close contact with the Boston Planning & Development Agency as well as developers who are working to diversify and improve conditions in the city.”


Currently, Lane serves as the operations manager at Boston Children’s Chorus, a key step in his ongoing journey toward his dream of leadership through the arts.


Deputy Director


When 
Matthew Dickey (MET’13)
 graduated with his BU Arts Administration master’s degree, he reentered the working world equipped with the know-how to take on leadership roles in the nonprofit sector. Today, he’s leveraging that expertise in multiple ways: not only is he in a key position at a Boston nonprofit, but he’s also making his mark as an influential artist—using his talents as a roving photographer to bring iconic, historical, and underappreciated buildings across the city.


Dickey is the deputy director at the Boston Preservation Alliance, a 501(c)3 organization dedicated to protecting and preserving Boston’s storied architectural heritage. He reinforces this mission as the creative force behind @streetscapecurator, a popular Instagram account that showcases the quirky, memorable, and distinguished facades of Boston’s diverse neighborhoods. By spotlighting as many notable buildings as he can find, Dickey is creating a groundswell of support for preserving them.


“If people don’t really care about a thing being there, it’s not going to survive. It’s not going to continue,” he emphasizes. Through his photography, he champions the same cause his nonprofit advances. “We run on the adage that there should be no buildings torn down because everything should be reused.”


For Dickey, it’s the vastness of opportunities within arts administration that excites him the most. “The field of arts administration is huge. You can see that through my own career path working in a community center, youth arts organizations, and tourism,” he notes.


Director of Development


Laura Frye (MET’06)
 knows that working in the arts is a prerequisite to career satisfaction. After graduation from BU MET’s Arts Administration master’s program, she took a fundraising job with a university near to where she lived. But she missed working in her field of choice. “I didn’t feel a lot of passion in the position. I learned that you really need to have an emotional connection to the organization before you commit,” she says.


Today, after stints with the Boston Ballet and Wadswoth Atheneum Museum of Art, Frye works as the director of development for the School of Fine Arts at the University of Connecticut. She finds that, for all the skills she developed to ply her craft, it’s common humanity that makes the biggest difference in cultivating cultural revenue.


“I think you just need to be authentic,” she says of her professional craft. “You’re talking about really personal things with people: money.”


Being a successful arts administrator, then, comes down to unexpected skills. “You have to be a good listener. It’s amazing what people tell you when you just stop talking,” Frye says.


Senior Manager of Membership


For 
Kati Nalbandian (’22)
, a career in arts administration means harnessing her expertise in marketing, event planning, and fundraising to support the arts. With an undergraduate background in theater, she came to BU MET’s Arts Administration graduate program to get her  master’s degree, as well as a 
Graduate Certificate in Fundraising Management
.


“This education was invaluable for deepening my understanding of nonprofit structure, fundraising, and how to better support arts organizations and individual artists in my community,” Nalbandian says. “It also opened up new opportunities and roles for me.”


As she sees it, soft skills are also paramount to being an effective arts administrator. “Having a social personality really matters in the arts and humanities,” she says. “Sure, there are roles that might be more data-driven, where you’re primarily analyzing data, but at the end of the day, we’re all working together with a lot of human interactions.”


Today, Nalbandian serves as the senior manager of membership for Mass MoCA, a dynamic role where she coordinates both internal and external stakeholders, hosts events, and creates opportunities to connect with members. “Although we fall within the annual giving and fundraising department, our work transcends fundraising by fostering a sense of community and belonging among our members,” she notes. “I am using skills that I had honed early in my career, marketing and communication, as well as the fundraising insights gained from my BU program. It’s incredibly rewarding and a lot of fun.”


Social and Community Impact Senior Manager


Brendon Mason (MET’12)
 became interested in arts administration after starting his career working with Hyannis Sound, a professional a cappella group on Cape Cod. He enrolled in the BU MET master’s degree program to deepen his commitment to the arts. “I got interested in arts administration as it was a way to connect my passion for the arts with coursework that focused on things like making the arts more accessible and promoting the health of nonprofits,” he says.


While in the program, he prioritized developing the skills that would translate into a career in nonprofit management or nonprofit consulting. “I made an effort to learn as much as I could about the nonprofit sector and to broaden my understanding of what makes organizations tick. That experience has proved to be invaluable,” he says. Mason found the mandatory internships particularly valuable. “In addition to the experience that I gained by working, having multiple internships helped me better understand both what I did and didn’t want in regard to my career,” he says.


Mason found tremendous success working for organizations like the Boston Foundation, Boston Ballet, and Robin Hood—an organization that gives between $100–$150 million annually. But he’s found that where you work isn’t nearly so significant as how you do. “While the big/résumé-building stuff is obviously important, the work experience that has shaped my career the most has more to do with stuff that doesn’t end up on résumés,” he offers. “Navigating office culture, remaining flexible when roles are changing, and seeing transition as an opportunity rather than a challenge are all things that have shaped my career.”


Today, Mason works with one of the world’s largest brands—as Nike’s senior manager for social and community impact.


“My only piece of advice for current and prospective students is to be authentic. In addition to a kickass work ethic, people want to work with people that they like, and being yourself is a great way to disarm your classmates and colleagues and create space for open-minded, accepting environments and dialogue,” he says.


Additional Examples of Arts Administration Jobs


BU Arts Administration program alumni have gone on to hold the following positions (to name a few):




Annual Giving Coordinator


Art Advisor


Artist-in-Residence Program Director


Arts Education Manager


Assistant Director


Assistant General Manager


Associate Director of Special Projects


Associate Registrar for Digital Resources


Audience Development Coordinator


Audience Engagement Editor


Box Office Manager


Brand Design Project Manager


Chief Operating Officer


Chief Strategic Program Officer


Community Relations Manager


Company Manager


Corporate Relations manager


Creative Director


Curator


Customer Engagement Manager


Design Manager


Director of Administration


Director of Admissions and Artistic Planning


Director of Advancement


Director of Annual Giving


Director of Chorus Operations


Director of Communications and Marketing


Director of Community Arts


Director of Community Engagement


Director of Content Strategy, Principal & Major Gifts


Director of Corporate Engagement and Partnerships


Director of Design and Production


Director of Development


Director of Donor Engagement


Director of Ecommerce and Digital Marketing


Director of Education


Director of Finance and Administration


Director of Major Gifts


Director of Marketing and Outreach


Director of Operations


Director of Special Projects


Director of Strategic Partnerships


Educational Program Director


Events Coordinator


Executive Affairs and Special Projects Officer


Executive Assistant to the Museum Director


Executive Director


Executive Producer


Exhibit Developer/Experience Designer


Exhibitions Coordinator


Fellowship Coordinator


Fiscal Operations Manager


Front of House Manager


Gallery Learning Museum Educator


Gallery Manger


Grants Manager


Head of Digital Marketing


Human Resource Coordinator


Individual Gifts Officer


Individual Giving Manager


Institutional Giving Officer


Lead Curator


Licensing Representative


Line Producer


Major Gifts Officer


Manager of Artistic Operations


Manager of Communications


Manager of Public Art and External Affairs


Manager, Development Systems and Technology


Manager, Student Art Programs


Managing Director


Marketing Analytics Manager


Marketing and Public Relations Manager


Marketing Specialist


Membership Manager


Musical Director


Operations Manager


Patron Services Manager


Planning Executive


Principal Art Consultant


Program Manager


Program Officer


Project Manager


Public Art Program Manager


Public Relations Manager


Registrar


Research Analyst


Senior Foundation Program Officer


Social Media Manager


Strategy Director


Theater Manager






Connect with Us


Apply
Request Information
Meet An Advisor








What to Read Next: MET Arts Administration Knowledge Center




Arts Administration Student Stories


How Many Years for an MS in Arts Administration—and What is the Cost?


Why Get a Master’s Degree in Arts Administration at Boston University’s Metropolitan College?


What Are My Career Options with an Arts Administration Master’s Degree from Boston University’s Metropolitan College?


Are There Different Specializations within the MS in Arts Administration?


























Boston University
 
Boston University
 Metropolitan College
© 2025 Trustees of Boston University


DMCA


Privacy


Sitemap


MET Job Board


Contact Us




Facebook


Instagram


LinkedIn


Twitter


YouTube




©  Boston University. All rights reserved. www.bu.edu




















Back to top