Duration & Cost of MS in Project Management | BU MET


























































 












Skip to Main Content






Boston University


Metropolitan College






Degrees & Certificates


Admissions


Faculty & Research


Apply Now


Full Menu
Close Menu
 


Boston University








Search




Search for:




 


Degrees & Certificates






Actuarial Science






Analytics, Data & Business






Arts Administration






Bachelor’s Degree Completion






Biomedical & Healthcare






Business & Management






City Planning & Urban Affairs






Computer Information Systems






Computer Science & IT






Criminal Justice






Cybersecurity






Finance






Gastronomy & Food Studies






Linguistics






Marketing & Communications






Project Management






Risk Management






Software Development






Supply Chain Management










Admissions






Apply Now: Graduate






Apply Now: Undergraduate






International Students






Tuition & Fees






Financial Aid






Admitted Students






Academic Calendars






Orientation






Course Registration










About






Dean’s Welcome






2030 Strategic Plan






Dean’s Advisory Board






Diversity & Inclusion






Directory










Faculty & Research






Faculty






Podcast: MET Makes Conversation










Courses


Careers


News


Events


Contact Us




Resources for:


Current Students


Faculty & Staff


Alumni & Friends








Apply Now:  Graduate


Apply Now:  Undergraduate


Request Information


Connect:  Admissions


 
















 






How Long Does a Master’s in Project Management Take to Complete—and What is the Cost?
















Back to Programs
Project Management


Pursuing an education as an adult presents distinct challenges. How do you earn a graduate degree while tending to the demands of your profession, your family, and your limited free time? How do you afford it—and how big a bite will it take out of your time? At Boston University’s Metropolitan College (MET), there are options that enable you to balance an education with the demands of life.


Master’s degree programs at BU’s Metropolitan College have been carefully designed to provide flexible modes of study within the parameters of a rigorous education. That means you have more control over how long you choose to take to complete a program, and whether to pursue it as a full-time or part-time student—a calculation that plays a role in how much a degree at BU MET might cost.


For example, take BU MET’s 
Master of Science in Project Management
, which also includes the option to pursue a concentration in 
Program & Project Portfolio Management
. Many students pursuing a project management credential work full time in industries such as financial services, manufacturing, construction, information technology, business, life sciences, education, and healthcare. Whether they are established project managers or just starting out, these professionals are committed to advancing their education and their careers—and they depend on educational opportunities that are not only reputable, but also flexible, supportive, and affordable. Busy adults benefit from BU MET’s convenient evening and online courses, not to mention working with expert project management faculty who understand the challenges of balancing an education with a demanding job and a home life. Meanwhile, invaluable industry connections are made in the classroom—one of the perks of studying alongside other working professionals.


BU MET has a long history—over half a century—supporting nontraditional learners from diverse walks of life in pursuit of their education. The College offers a variety of ways you can tailor your program to suit the needs and demands of your own life. Practically speaking, you can choose to enroll in courses offered during the fall, spring, and summer terms. Whether you pursue your course of study full-time or part-time is your choice, based on what works best for you. Additionally, you can pursue the MS in Project Management entirely online, which is also true for Metropolitan College’s 
Graduate Certificate in Project Management
 and 
Graduate Certificate in Project, Program & Portfolio Management
—and BU MET provides you with the option to transfer eligible certificate courses into the Project Management master’s degree program.


How Many Years Will It Take to Earn a Project Management Master’s at BU?


The short answer is that it depends. Will you pursue this project management program evenings on campus or online? Will you study part-time or full-time? Will you take courses every semester—spring, summer, and fall—or will you take a break from your studies between terms? At BU’s Metropolitan College, these are all decisions you can make based on what works best for you.


Whether you pursue your degree on campus or online, the 40-unit MS in Project Management at Boston University can be completed in 12 months of full-time study, and as few as 20 months as a part-time student.




Learn more about the 
Master of Science in Project Management
.




How Much Will It Cost to Earn BU’s MS in Project Management?


The cost of earning a master’s degree in Project Management at Boston University is directly related to whether you study full- or part-time. Either way, a BU degree is an investment that will pay great dividends. A degree from Boston University not only adds shine to your résumé, it is a credential that is trusted by employers and higher ed institutions alike. Whether you’re looking to advance your career, change your profession, or continue your scholarship in a PhD program, a degree from BU will make greater successes that much more obtainable.


Metropolitan College tuition is set annually by the Trustees of Boston University and can differ from semester to semester and year to year. For updated costs, visit BU MET’s 
Tuition & Fees page.


Cost for Part-Time Graduate Study at BU MET


Part-time tuition rates at BU MET provide an affordable pathway to a BU education. Part-time graduate students are enrolled in no more than 11.5 units per semester (at 12 units or more, you are considered full-time). 
As a part-time student, courses numbered 600–999 cost $975 per unit and courses numbered 100–599 cost $550 per unit
, unless otherwise noted.
Cost for Full-Time Graduate Study at BU MET


As a full-time student, you are enrolled in a minimum of 12 units per semester, and will pay a commensurate full-time Boston University tuition. Currently, BU’s full-time tuition rates stand at $33,335 per semester. Pursuing more than 18 units in a single semester will lead to an additional charge of $2,083 per unit.






To see what you can expect to pay for the master’s program as a part-time student, look at the “Cost” section of the 
MS in Project Management page
.




Financial Assistance at BU MET


Along with 
Federal Unsubsidized Loans
, 
Graduate PLUS Loans
, and 
Military Veteran Benefits
, BU MET offers a wide variety of financial assistance opportunities that you may be able to take advantage of.


Merit Scholarships


To recognize exceptional academic and professional accomplishments, MET offers merit scholarships of $3,000–$5,000 toward tuition and fees to eligible students admitted to a graduate degree program. Awards are based on the strength of each applicant’s academic qualifications and professional experience. Recipients are notified within their admission letter, with awards disbursed in even installments for each course of enrollment toward master’s degree requirements. Students must maintain a 3.0 GPA and good academic standing to maintain their merit scholarship award. 
Learn more about Merit Scholarships.


Graduate Assistantships


Assistantships are available for Metropolitan College graduate students through individual academic departments or programs—an excellent opportunity to work with full-time faculty members through teaching, research, or other scholarly activities. Graduate degree candidates who are in good standing with a cumulative GPA of 3.0 and who are registered for at least one course are eligible to apply. Assistantships are applied on a semester basis and typically range from 3 to 20 hours per week, allowing students to earn up to $5,500 per semester (paid in weekly installments) to assist with living expenses. 
Learn more about Graduate Assistantships at BU MET.


Edgar B. Pitts Scholarship


The 
Edgar B. Pitts Scholarship
 is available to graduate students pursuing a Master of Science degree in Administrative Studies, Applied Business Analytics, Enterprise Risk Management, Financial Management, Global Marketing Management, Insurance Management, Project Management, or Supply Chain Management. Students must be enrolled part-time (11.5 units or less) and cannot be receiving tuition reimbursement through an employer.


Alexis Gavras Scholarship Fund


The 
Alexis Gavras Scholarship Fund
 was established at Boston University’s Metropolitan College thanks to a generous gift from Haralambos Gavras, MD, and Irene Gavras, MD, in memory of their son and BU MET alum, Alexis (CAS’93, MET’04). This scholarship is for native or self-identified Greek graduate students who completed their bachelor’s at the University of Patras in Greece, or any other accredited Greek college or university, and for Greek-American undergraduates who completed their undergraduate degree at any accredited college or university. Eligible students in BU MET master’s degree programs may apply for this award.


Boston Medical Center Employee Scholarship


If you’re eligible for benefits as an employee at Boston Medical Center (BMC), this scholarship provides a 50 percent reduction on tuition and can be applied to graduate programs at BU Metropolitan College. 
Learn more about the Boston Medical Center Employee Scholarship.


Boston University Women’s Guild Scholarships


These scholarships provide both aid and encouragement to women 30 and over enrolled in Boston University graduate programs. You do not need to be a US citizen or enrolled full time to be eligible for a 
Women’s Guild Scholarship
.


The Bryan D. Willard Scholarship


Established in memory of Marine Captain Bryan Willard, this scholarship is available to graduate students who are members or veterans of the armed forces who have been awarded a Purple Heart for a wound received while in combat. Spouses and children of veterans killed in the line of duty are also eligible and encouraged to apply. To learn more, 
visit the Bryan D. Willard Scholarship page
.


City of Boston Scholar Program


Scholarships are available to City of Boston employees taking courses at Boston University towards master’s degrees and graduate certificates through the City of Boston Scholar Program. To learn more, 
visit BU MET’s City of Boston Scholar Program page
.


Visit the Boston University 
Metropolitan College scholarships
 page for information on all scholarships available to graduate students.


Transferable Units


There are other ways to manage your time and costs in pursuing a project management graduate program at BU MET. Those who bring external graduate expertise to their degree program may petition to transfer up to two approved graduate level courses (8 units) to the Project Management master’s degree requirements, provided they have earned at least a B. Unit transfer is dependent on course hours. Official transcripts from an accredited institution, course descriptions, and syllabi must be submitted for transfer units to be considered.


Graduate Certificate Programs in Project Management


For some, the pathway to project management master’s degree at BU MET starts with a four-course graduate certificate (or two). This is especially true if you want to build a little flexibility into your educational plans. Units earned in the following four-course graduate certificates at BU’s Metropolitan College can be transferred into the master’s degree in Project Management program:




Graduate Certificate in Project Management


Graduate Certificate in Project, Program & Portfolio Management




In most cases, Boston University’s project management graduate certificates can be completed online or on campus in as few as eight months of part-time study.


A BU Education is Within Reach


Metropolitan College was established at Boston University in 1965 in order to ensure that adult learners had access to a prestigious Boston University education though flexible learning options and affordable tuition. Many students at BU MET are working professionals; as such, they earn their degree or certificate while working part-time or full-time. That reality often dictates how much time a student can commit to graduate study each term. For those studying part-time, BU MET offers competitive tuition that brings a BU education within reach.


At the same time, Metropolitan College offers opportunities for full-time study for those who wish to commit as much time as possible to their courses each semester. Full-time options are also excellent for 
international students
 who must maintain F-1 visa status in order to study in the US.




Learn more about 
Project Management programs at Boston University’s Metropolitan College
.




What is the ultimate cost and duration of the program? You’ll have to decide that for yourself, depending on the specific way you manage and complete your requirements. But no matter how you achieve your degree, you’ll find, like those before you, the dividends are worth the investment.




Connect with Us


Apply
Request Information
Meet An Advisor








What to Read Next: MET Project Management Knowledge Center




Business & Management Student Stories


How Long Does a Master’s in Project Management Take to Complete—and What is the Cost?


Why Choose a Master of Science in Project Management at BU MET?


Are There Different Project Management Graduate Programs or Specializations at BU?


What Is the Career Outlook with an MS in Project Management from BU MET?
























Boston University
 
Boston University
 Metropolitan College
© 2025 Trustees of Boston University


DMCA


Privacy


Sitemap


MET Job Board


Contact Us




Facebook


Instagram


LinkedIn


Twitter


YouTube




©  Boston University. All rights reserved. www.bu.edu




















Back to top