Duration & Cost of MS in Arts Administration | BU MET


























































 












Skip to Main Content






Boston University


Metropolitan College






Degrees & Certificates


Admissions


Faculty & Research


Apply Now


Full Menu
Close Menu
 


Boston University








Search




Search for:




 


Degrees & Certificates






Actuarial Science






Analytics, Data & Business






Arts Administration






Bachelor’s Degree Completion






Biomedical & Healthcare






Business & Management






City Planning & Urban Affairs






Computer Information Systems






Computer Science & IT






Criminal Justice






Cybersecurity






Finance






Gastronomy & Food Studies






Linguistics






Marketing & Communications






Project Management






Risk Management






Software Development






Supply Chain Management










Admissions






Apply Now: Graduate






Apply Now: Undergraduate






International Students






Tuition & Fees






Financial Aid






Admitted Students






Academic Calendars






Orientation






Course Registration










About






Dean’s Welcome






2030 Strategic Plan






Dean’s Advisory Board






Diversity & Inclusion






Directory










Faculty & Research






Faculty






Podcast: MET Makes Conversation










Courses


Careers


News


Events


Contact Us




Resources for:


Current Students


Faculty & Staff


Alumni & Friends








Apply Now:  Graduate


Apply Now:  Undergraduate


Request Information


Connect:  Admissions


 
















 






How Many Years for an MS in Arts Administration—and What is the Cost?
















Back to Programs
Arts Administration


Pursuing an education as an adult presents distinct challenges. How do you earn a graduate degree while tending to the demands of your profession, your family, and your limited free time? How do you afford it—and how big a bite will it take out of your time? At Boston University’s Metropolitan College (MET), there are options that enable you to balance an education with the demands of life.


Master’s degree programs at BU’s Metropolitan College have been carefully designed to provide flexibility while retaining academic rigor. That means you have more control over how long you choose to take to complete a program, and whether to pursue it as a full-time or part-time student—a calculation that plays a role in how much a degree at BU MET might cost.


BU MET’s 
Master of Science in Arts Administration
, for example, provides professionals in the arts with avenues for advancement, leadership, and innovation in an ever-transforming field—not to mention an invaluable career network. With evening courses and options for part-time or full-time study—and with some courses available online—the MS in Arts Administration provides the flexibility required by working adults who need to balance their studies with the practicalities and demands of a full-time job. When you make the choice to pursue career advancement and lifelong learning opportunities in Arts Administration at Boston University, BU MET will work with you to ensure your success.


BU MET has a long history—over half a century—supporting nontraditional learners from diverse walks of life in pursuit of their education. The college offers a variety of ways you can tailor your program to suit the needs and demands of your own life. Practically speaking, you can choose to enroll in courses offered during the fall, spring, and summer terms. Whether you pursue your course of study full-time or part-time is your choice, based on what works best for you.  Metropolitan College’s graduate certificate programs in 
Arts Management
, 
Arts Marketing
, 
Fundraising Management
, and 
Commercial Theater Development
 are offered both online or face-to-face, and certificate courses can be transferred into the Arts Administration master’s program.


How Many Years Will It Take to Earn an Arts Administration Master’s at BU?


The short answer is that it depends. Will you study part-time or full-time? Will you take courses every semester—spring, summer, and fall—or will you take a break from your studies between terms? Will you study evenings on campus or, when available, online? At BU’s Metropolitan College, these are all decisions you can make based on what works best for you. 


The 40-unit MS in Arts Administration at Boston University can be completed in 12 months of full-time study, and as few as 24 months as a part-time student.




Learn more about the 
Master of Science in Arts Administration
.




How Much Will It Cost to Earn BU MET’s MS in Arts Administration?


The cost of earning a master’s degree in Arts Administration at Boston University is directly related to whether you study full- or part-time. Either way, a BU degree is an investment that will pay great dividends. A degree from Boston University adds shine to your résumé and is a credential that is trusted by employers and higher ed institutions alike. Whether you’re looking to advance your career, change your profession, or continue your scholarship in a PhD program, a degree from BU will make greater successes that much more obtainable. 


Metropolitan College tuition is set annually by the Trustees of Boston University and can differ from semester to semester and year to year. For updated costs, please 
visit the BU MET Tuition & Fees page
.


Cost for Part-Time Graduate Study at BU MET


Part-time tuition rates at BU MET provide an affordable pathway to a BU education. Part-time graduate students are enrolled in no more than 11.5 units per semester (at 12 units or more, you are considered full-time). 
As a part-time student, courses numbered 600–999 cost $975 per unit and courses numbered 100–599 cost $550 per unit
, unless otherwise noted.
Cost for Full-Time Graduate Study at BU MET


As a full-time student, you are enrolled in a minimum of 12 units per semester, and will pay a commensurate full-time Boston University tuition. Currently, BU’s full-time tuition rates stand at $33,335 per semester. Pursuing more than 18 units in a single semester will lead to an additional charge of $2,083 per unit.


To see what you can expect to pay for the master’s program as a part-time student, look at the “Cost” section of the 
MS in Arts Administration page
. 


Financial Assistance at BU MET


Along with 
Federal Unsubsidized Loans
, 
Graduate PLUS Loans
, and 
Military Veteran Benefits
, BU MET offers a wide variety of financial assistance opportunities that you may be able to take advantage of.


Merit Scholarships


To recognize exceptional academic and professional accomplishments, MET offers merit scholarships of $3,000–$5,000 toward tuition and fees to eligible students admitted to a graduate degree program. Awards are based on the strength of each applicant’s academic qualifications and professional experience. Recipients are notified within their admission letter, with awards disbursed in even installments for each course of enrollment toward master’s degree requirements. Students must maintain a 3.0 GPA and good academic standing to maintain their merit scholarship award. 
Learn more about Merit Scholarships.


Graduate Assistantships


Assistantships are available for Metropolitan College graduate students through individual academic departments or programs—an excellent opportunity to work with full-time faculty members through teaching, research, or other scholarly activities. Graduate degree candidates who are in good standing with a cumulative GPA of 3.0 and who are registered for at least one course are eligible to apply. Assistantships are applied on a semester basis and typically range from 3 to 20 hours per week, allowing students to earn up to $5,500 per semester (paid in weekly installments) to assist with living expenses. 
Learn more about Graduate Assistantships at BU MET.


Advancing the Arts Scholarship


Initiated in 2021, the Advancing the Arts Scholarship is available to US citizens or permanent residents who have dealt with personal challenges or other barriers to their participation in the arts, and who are committed to making the arts accessible to all. Applications are accepted from all MS in Arts Administration students, including those with demonstrated experience in or a commitment to working with Latinx, Black, Indigenous, and People of Color (BIPOC) communities; those who have faced a physical or mental disability; those who attended historically Black colleges and universities (HBCU); or those who are members of a federally or state-recognized Native American tribe.


The Advancing the Arts Scholarship provides a total tuition stipend of $10,000, dispersed in the amount of $2,500 per semester, while the recipient remains in good academic standing within the Master of Science in Arts Administration program. Scholarship grantees are also eligible for graduate and teaching assistantships. Learn more about the 
Advancing the Arts Scholarship
.


Boston Medical Center Employee Scholarship


If you’re eligible for benefits as an employee at Boston Medical Center (BMC), this scholarship provides a 50 percent reduction on tuition and can be applied to graduate programs at BU Metropolitan College. 
Learn more about the Boston Medical Center Employee Scholarship.


Boston University Women’s Guild Scholarships


These scholarships provide both aid and encouragement to women 30 and over enrolled in Boston University graduate programs. You do not need to be a US citizen or enrolled full time to be eligible for a 
Women’s Guild Scholarship
.


The Bryan D. Willard Scholarship


Established in memory of Marine Captain Bryan D. Willard, this scholarship is available to graduate students who are members or veterans of the armed forces who have been awarded a Purple Heart for a wound received while in combat. Spouses and children of veterans killed in the line of duty are also eligible and encouraged to apply. To learn more, 
visit the Bryan D. Willard Scholarship page
.


City of Boston Scholar Program


Scholarships are available to eligible City of Boston employees taking courses at Boston University towards master’s degrees and graduate certificates through the City of Boston Scholar Program. To learn more, 
visit BU MET’s City of Boston Scholar Program page
.


Rosalyn S. White Endowed Scholarship Fund


Established by Michael White, Esq., and Elizabeth White in memory of Michael’s mother, Rosalyn S. White (MET’82), this scholarship is awarded based on need with a preference for non-traditional students whose pursuit of an undergraduate or graduate degree was delayed by personal obligations or circumstances. Learn more about the 
Rosalyn S. White Endowed Scholarship Fund.


Visit the Boston University 
Metropolitan College scholarships
 page for information on all scholarships available to graduate students.


Transferable Units


There are other ways to manage your time and costs in pursuing a graduate program in Arts Administration at BU MET. Those who bring external graduate expertise to their degree program may transfer up to two approved graduate level courses (8 units) to the Arts Administration master’s degree requirements as course waivers, provided they have earned at least a B. Unit transfer is dependent on course hours. Official transcripts, course descriptions, and syllabi must be submitted for course waivers to be considered.


Certificate to Degree Pathways


For some, the pathway to a master’s degree starts with a four-course graduate certificate, allowing you to build additional flexibility into your education plans without taking on a full master’s degree program. Arts Administration certificate programs can be pursued as standalone professional credentials or incorporated into the course of study for the master’s degree. Upon completion of a certificate, interested students may request admission to the MS in Arts Administration. If approved, all completed units earned in the following four-course graduate certificates at BU’s Metropolitan College can be transferred into the master’s degree:




Arts Management


Arts Marketing


Fundraising Management


Commercial Theater Development




Boston University’s Arts Administration graduate certificate programs can be completed in as few as eight months, full-time, or up to 12 months of part-time study.


A BU Education is Within Reach


Metropolitan College was established at Boston University in 1965 in order to ensure that adult learners had access to a prestigious Boston University education through flexible learning options and affordable tuition. Many of students at BU MET are working professionals; as such, they earn their degree or certificate while working part-time or full-time. That reality often dictates how much time a student can commit to graduate study each term. For those studying part-time, BU MET offers competitive tuition that brings a BU education within reach.


At the same time, Metropolitan College offers opportunities for full-time study for those who wish to commit as much time as possible to their courses each semester. Full-time options are also excellent for 
international students
 who must maintain F-1 visa status to study in the US.




Learn more about 
Arts Administration programs at Boston University’s Metropolitan College
.




What is the ultimate cost and duration of the program? You’ll have to decide that for yourself, depending on the specific way you manage and complete your requirements. But no matter how you achieve your degree, you’ll find, like those before you, the dividends are worth the investment.


Contact BU MET Graduate Admissions & Enrollment Services at 617-353-6000 or 
met@bu.edu
 for guidance making practical decisions about how you want to pursue your master’s at BU, or 
attend an informational webinar or event
 to learn more.




Connect with Us


Apply
Request Information
Meet An Advisor








What to Read Next: MET Arts Administration Knowledge Center




Arts Administration Student Stories


How Many Years for an MS in Arts Administration—and What is the Cost?


Why Get a Master’s Degree in Arts Administration at Boston University’s Metropolitan College?


What Are My Career Options with an Arts Administration Master’s Degree from Boston University’s Metropolitan College?


Are There Different Specializations within the MS in Arts Administration?


























Boston University
 
Boston University
 Metropolitan College
© 2025 Trustees of Boston University


DMCA


Privacy


Sitemap


MET Job Board


Contact Us




Facebook


Instagram


LinkedIn


Twitter


YouTube




©  Boston University. All rights reserved. www.bu.edu




















Back to top